docs/reference/search/search-fields.asciidoc, before:

[discrete]
[[search-fields]]
=== Retrieve selected fields

By default, each hit in the search response includes the document
<<mapping-source-field,`_source`>>, which is the entire JSON object that was
provided when indexing the document. To retrieve specific fields in the search
response, you can use the `fields` parameter:

[source,console]
----
POST twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "message": "elasticsearch"
    }
  },
  "fields": ["user", "date"],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[setup:twitter]

The `fields` parameter consults both a document's `_source` and the index
mappings to load and return values. Because it makes use of the mappings,
`fields` has some advantages over referencing the `_source` directly: it
accepts <<multi-fields, multi-fields>> and <<alias, field aliases>>, and
also formats field values like dates in a consistent way.

A document's `_source` is stored as a single field in Lucene. So the whole
`_source` object must be loaded and parsed even if only a small number of
fields are requested. To avoid this limitation, you can try another option for
loading fields:

* Use the <<docvalue-fields, `docvalue_fields`>>
parameter to get values for selected fields. This can be a good
choice when returning a fairly small number of fields that support doc values,
such as keywords and dates.
* Use the <<request-body-search-stored-fields, `stored_fields`>> parameter to
get the values for specific stored fields (fields that use the
<<mapping-store,`store`>> mapping option).

You can find more detailed information on each of these methods in the
following sections:

* <<search-fields-param>>
* <<docvalue-fields>>
* <<stored-fields>>
* <<source-filtering>>

[discrete]
[[search-fields-param]]
=== Fields

The `fields` parameter allows for retrieving a list of document fields in
the search response. It consults both the document `_source` and the index
mappings to return each value in a standardized way that matches its mapping
type. By default, date fields are formatted according to the
<<mapping-date-format,date format>> parameter in their mappings.

The following search request uses the `fields` parameter to retrieve values
for the `user` field, all fields starting with `location.`, and the
`date` field:

[source,console]
----
POST twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "message": "elasticsearch"
    }
  },
  "fields": [
    "user",
    "location.*", <1>
    {
      "field": "date",
      "format": "epoch_millis" <2>
    }
  ],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[continued]

<1> Both full field names and wildcard patterns are accepted.
<2> Using object notation, you can pass a `format` parameter to apply a custom
    format for the field's values. This is currently supported for
    <<date,`date` fields>> and <<date_nanos, `date_nanos` fields>>, which
    accept a <<mapping-date-format,date format>>.

The values are returned as a flat list in the `fields` section in each hit:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "took" : 2,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "twitter",
        "_id" : "0",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "fields" : {
          "user" : [
            "kimchy"
          ],
          "date" : [
            "1258294332000"
          ],
          "location.city": [
            "Amsterdam"
          ],
          "location.country": [
            "Netherlands"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 2/"took": $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score" : 1.0/"max_score" : $body.hits.max_score/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score" : 1.0/"_score" : $body.hits.hits.0._score/]

Only leaf fields are returned -- `fields` does not allow for fetching entire
objects.

The `fields` parameter handles field types like <<alias, field aliases>> and
<<constant-keyword, `constant_keyword`>> whose values aren't always present in
the `_source`. Other mapping options are also respected, including
<<ignore-above, `ignore_above`>>, <<ignore-malformed, `ignore_malformed`>> and
<<null-value, `null_value`>>.

[discrete]
[[docvalue-fields]]
=== Doc value fields

You can use the <<docvalue-fields,`docvalue_fields`>> parameter to return
<<doc-values,doc values>> for one or more fields in the search response.

Doc values store the same values as the `_source` but in an on-disk,
column-based structure that's optimized for sorting and aggregations. Since each
field is stored separately, {es} only reads the field values that were requested
and can avoid loading the whole document `_source`.

Doc values are stored for supported fields by default. However, doc values are
not supported for <<text,`text`>> or
{plugins}/mapper-annotated-text-usage.html[`text_annotated`] fields.

The following search request uses the `docvalue_fields` parameter to retrieve
doc values for the `user` field, all fields starting with `location.`, and the
`date` field:

[source,console]
----
GET twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "message": "elasticsearch"
    }
  },
  "docvalue_fields": [
    "user",
    "location.*", <1>
    {
      "field": "date",
      "format": "epoch_millis" <2>
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[continued]

<1> Both full field names and wildcard patterns are accepted.
<2> Using object notation, you can pass a `format` parameter to apply a custom
    format for the field's doc values. <<date,Date fields>> support a
    <<mapping-date-format,date `format`>>. <<number,Numeric fields>> support a
    https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html[DecimalFormat
    pattern]. Other field datatypes do not support the `format` parameter.

TIP: You cannot use the `docvalue_fields` parameter to retrieve doc values for
nested objects. If you specify a nested object, the search returns an empty
array (`[ ]`) for the field. To access nested fields, use the
<<request-body-search-inner-hits, `inner_hits`>> parameter's `docvalue_fields`
property.

[discrete]
[[stored-fields]]
=== Stored fields

It's also possible to store an individual field's values by using the
<<mapping-store,`store`>> mapping option. You can use the
<<request-body-search-stored-fields, `stored_fields`>> parameter to include
these stored values in the search response.

[discrete]
[[source-filtering]]
=== Source filtering

You can use the `_source` parameter to select what fields of the source are
returned. This is called _source filtering_.

The following search API request sets the `_source` request body parameter to
`false`. The document source is not included in the response.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": false,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

To return only a subset of source fields, specify a wildcard (`*`) pattern in
the `_source` parameter. The following search API request returns the source for
only the `obj` field and its properties.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": "obj.*",
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

You can also specify an array of wildcard patterns in the `_source` field. The
following search API request returns the source for only the `obj1` and
`obj2` fields and their properties.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": [ "obj1.*", "obj2.*" ],
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

For finer control, you can specify an object containing arrays of `includes` and
`excludes` patterns in the `_source` parameter.

If the `includes` property is specified, only source fields that match one of
its patterns are returned. You can exclude fields from this subset using the
`excludes` property.

If the `includes` property is not specified, the entire document source is
returned, excluding any fields that match a pattern in the `excludes` property.

The following search API request returns the source for only the `obj1` and
`obj2` fields and their properties, excluding any child `description` fields.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": {
    "includes": [ "obj1.*", "obj2.*" ],
    "excludes": [ "*.description" ]
  },
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

Commit message:

Support spatial fields in field retrieval API. (#59821)
Although we accept a variety of formats during indexing, spatial data is
returned in a single consistent format. This is GeoJSON by default, but
well-known text is also supported by passing the option 'format: wkt'.

Note that points (in addition to shapes) are returned in GeoJSON by default. The
reasoning is that this gives better consistency, and is the most convenient
format for most REST API users.

docs/reference/search/search-fields.asciidoc, after:

[discrete]
[[search-fields]]
=== Retrieve selected fields

By default, each hit in the search response includes the document
<<mapping-source-field,`_source`>>, which is the entire JSON object that was
provided when indexing the document. To retrieve specific fields in the search
response, you can use the `fields` parameter:

[source,console]
----
POST twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "message": "elasticsearch"
    }
  },
  "fields": ["user", "date"],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[setup:twitter]

The `fields` parameter consults both a document's `_source` and the index
mappings to load and return values. Because it makes use of the mappings,
`fields` has some advantages over referencing the `_source` directly: it
accepts <<multi-fields, multi-fields>> and <<alias, field aliases>>, and
also formats field values like dates in a consistent way.

A document's `_source` is stored as a single field in Lucene. So the whole
`_source` object must be loaded and parsed even if only a small number of
fields are requested. To avoid this limitation, you can try another option for
loading fields:

* Use the <<docvalue-fields, `docvalue_fields`>>
parameter to get values for selected fields. This can be a good
choice when returning a fairly small number of fields that support doc values,
such as keywords and dates.
* Use the <<request-body-search-stored-fields, `stored_fields`>> parameter to
get the values for specific stored fields (fields that use the
<<mapping-store,`store`>> mapping option).

You can find more detailed information on each of these methods in the
following sections:

* <<search-fields-param>>
* <<docvalue-fields>>
* <<stored-fields>>
* <<source-filtering>>

[discrete]
[[search-fields-param]]
=== Fields

The `fields` parameter allows for retrieving a list of document fields in
the search response. It consults both the document `_source` and the index
mappings to return each value in a standardized way that matches its mapping
type. By default, date fields are formatted according to the
<<mapping-date-format,date format>> parameter in their mappings.

The following search request uses the `fields` parameter to retrieve values
for the `user` field, all fields starting with `location.`, and the
`date` field:

[source,console]
----
POST twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "message": "elasticsearch"
    }
  },
  "fields": [
    "user",
    "location.*", <1>
    {
      "field": "date",
      "format": "epoch_millis" <2>
    }
  ],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[continued]

<1> Both full field names and wildcard patterns are accepted.
<2> Using object notation, you can pass a `format` parameter to apply a custom
    format for the field's values. The date fields
    <<date,`date`>> and <<date_nanos, `date_nanos`>> accept a
    <<mapping-date-format,date format>>. <<spatial_datatypes, Spatial fields>>
    accept either `geojson` for http://www.geojson.org[GeoJSON] (the default)
    or `wkt` for
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_text_representation_of_geometry[Well Known Text].
    Other field types do not support the `format` parameter.

The values are returned as a flat list in the `fields` section in each hit:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "took" : 2,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "twitter",
        "_id" : "0",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "fields" : {
          "user" : [
            "kimchy"
          ],
          "date" : [
            "1258294332000"
          ],
          "location.city": [
            "Amsterdam"
          ],
          "location.country": [
            "Netherlands"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 2/"took": $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score" : 1.0/"max_score" : $body.hits.max_score/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score" : 1.0/"_score" : $body.hits.hits.0._score/]

Only leaf fields are returned -- `fields` does not allow for fetching entire
objects.

The `fields` parameter handles field types like <<alias, field aliases>> and
<<constant-keyword, `constant_keyword`>> whose values aren't always present in
the `_source`. Other mapping options are also respected, including
<<ignore-above, `ignore_above`>>, <<ignore-malformed, `ignore_malformed`>> and
<<null-value, `null_value`>>.

[discrete]
[[docvalue-fields]]
=== Doc value fields

You can use the <<docvalue-fields,`docvalue_fields`>> parameter to return
<<doc-values,doc values>> for one or more fields in the search response.

Doc values store the same values as the `_source` but in an on-disk,
column-based structure that's optimized for sorting and aggregations. Since each
field is stored separately, {es} only reads the field values that were requested
and can avoid loading the whole document `_source`.

Doc values are stored for supported fields by default. However, doc values are
not supported for <<text,`text`>> or
{plugins}/mapper-annotated-text-usage.html[`text_annotated`] fields.

The following search request uses the `docvalue_fields` parameter to retrieve
doc values for the `user` field, all fields starting with `location.`, and the
`date` field:

[source,console]
----
GET twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "message": "elasticsearch"
    }
  },
  "docvalue_fields": [
    "user",
    "location.*", <1>
    {
      "field": "date",
      "format": "epoch_millis" <2>
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[continued]

<1> Both full field names and wildcard patterns are accepted.
<2> Using object notation, you can pass a `format` parameter to apply a custom
    format for the field's doc values. <<date,Date fields>> support a
    <<mapping-date-format,date `format`>>. <<number,Numeric fields>> support a
    https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html[DecimalFormat
    pattern]. Other field datatypes do not support the `format` parameter.

TIP: You cannot use the `docvalue_fields` parameter to retrieve doc values for
nested objects. If you specify a nested object, the search returns an empty
array (`[ ]`) for the field. To access nested fields, use the
<<request-body-search-inner-hits, `inner_hits`>> parameter's `docvalue_fields`
property.

[discrete]
[[stored-fields]]
=== Stored fields

It's also possible to store an individual field's values by using the
<<mapping-store,`store`>> mapping option. You can use the
<<request-body-search-stored-fields, `stored_fields`>> parameter to include
these stored values in the search response.

[discrete]
[[source-filtering]]
=== Source filtering

You can use the `_source` parameter to select what fields of the source are
returned. This is called _source filtering_.

The following search API request sets the `_source` request body parameter to
`false`. The document source is not included in the response.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": false,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

To return only a subset of source fields, specify a wildcard (`*`) pattern in
the `_source` parameter. The following search API request returns the source for
only the `obj` field and its properties.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": "obj.*",
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

You can also specify an array of wildcard patterns in the `_source` field. The
following search API request returns the source for only the `obj1` and
`obj2` fields and their properties.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": [ "obj1.*", "obj2.*" ],
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----

For finer control, you can specify an object containing arrays of `includes` and
`excludes` patterns in the `_source` parameter.

If the `includes` property is specified, only source fields that match one of
its patterns are returned. You can exclude fields from this subset using the
`excludes` property.

If the `includes` property is not specified, the entire document source is
returned, excluding any fields that match a pattern in the `excludes` property.

The following search API request returns the source for only the `obj1` and
`obj2` fields and their properties, excluding any child `description` fields.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "_source": {
    "includes": [ "obj1.*", "obj2.*" ],
    "excludes": [ "*.description" ]
  },
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "user.id": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
----
